# object-detection
Implementation of a program to classify objects within of an image. The classification scheme is carried out by two steps. The first stage makes use of a selective search algorithm [5], which selects and proposes classification regions (region proposals) called patches. The algorithm is already included in the OpenCV [2] library. The second stage processes all patches, generated by the first step, with a Convolutional Neural Network based on GoogLeNet [4] a neural network previously trained with Caffe [3]. This part implements a method with message-passing interface (MPI) for sending patches with possibly object candidates to a different nodes containing a neural network trained for classification. The outcome of classification is processed by a primary node, consolidating the different regions of the image.

# References
1. M. P. Forum. Mpi: A message-passing interface standard. Technical report, Knoxville, TN, USA, 1994.

2. Itseez. Open source computer vision library. https://github.com/itseez/opencv, 2015.

3. Y. Jia, E. Shelhamer, J. Donahue, S. Karayev, J. Long, R. Girshick, S. Guadarrama, and T. Darrell. Caffe: Convolutional architecture for fast feature embedding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.5093, 2014.

4. C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke, and A. Rabi- novich. Going deeper with convolutions. In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2015.

5. J. Uijlings, K. van de Sande, T. Gevers, and A. Smeulders. Selective search for object recognition. International Journal of Computer Vision, 2013.
